eggs benedict seems like a complicated
and fancy dish to pull off it's really
just a plate of saucy eggs ham and toast
all the parts can be made ahead and put
together right before you serve it
including a quick version of hollandaise
sauce that I make in a blender start the
hollandaise sauce by filling a large
saucepan about half way full with water
and bringing it to a simmer over high
heat then turn it off and set it aside
you're gonna use this to keep the sauce
warm the classic way to make hollandaise
sauce is to whisk egg yolks and lemon
juice over double boiler and then slowly
add in melted butter but the problem
with this is that you can end up
scrambling your eggs or if you add the
butter too fast you can break your sauce
but I have a foolproof way of making the
same sauce with a lot less hassle guide
your blender and add 2 egg yolks and 1
tbsp lemon juice blend it on medium
speed for about 30 seconds or until it's
lightened in color then reduce the speed
to low take out the small cap from the
lid and slowly drizzle in 8 tablespoons
of melted butter turn off the blender
add half a teaspoon of kosher salt and a
quarter teaspoon of pepper
and pulse to combine then boom and the
sauce is done just stick it on hot water
to stay warm for later now get ready to
poach the eggs grab a medium saucepan
and fill it with about two quarts or at
least two inches of water add four
teaspoons of white vinegar and bring it
to a simmer to successfully poach eggs
you should make sure to do three things
the first thing is make sure that your
water is just barely at a simmer because
if you have it boiling rapidly those big
bubbles are just gonna rip your egg
apart the second thing is you want to
make sure not to skip adding the vinegar
because the vinegar is there to help
keep the egg whites together and the
last thing is make sure to crack your
egg into a little bowl or ramekin first
because if you just plop it in there
straight from the shell the yolk can
break add four eggs to the water and
cook without poking at them for about
three minutes then use a slotted spoon
to lift the eggs out you want the whites
to be set and you can use your finger to
check for firmness put them in a bowl of
warm water and set them aside then split
two English muffins toast them cope with
a little butter and season with a little
salt and pepper
while the muffins are toasting warm up
the ham the easiest way to do this is in
the microwave but you can do in a frying
pan as well the class
kamme to use for an eggs benedict is
Canadian bacon but I prefer thinly
sliced ham because I don't like
wrestling with that tough casing now you
have all the parts ready put your muffin
down and top it with some of the ham
then get your slotted spoon lift the egg
from the water and use a paper towel to
absorb the excess water place the egg on
the ham and drizzle with plenty of the
hollandaise sauce if you want sprinkle
with a little bit of paprika here you
have a classic and elegant breakfast
that you can serve for Sunday brunch or
for Mother's Day you've got a crunchy
muffin and salty ham and a perfectly
poached gooey egg with lemony
hollandaise sauce on top and that's it
the easiest way to make Eggs Benedict
[Music]